XI - THE CRADLE OF CENTURIES
- HUGO: They've come here.
Amicia, the people...
It's my fault.
- AMICIA: It's not.
We all know what happened back there.
- SOPHIA: Don't overthink it.
Let's get to the map.
That's why you came here.
- AMICIA: This will soon be over, Hugo.
- AMICIA: The rats will have no choice
but to go to hell.
- HUGO: They'll fight back.
- SOPHIA: They're stupid animals, Hugo.
We're three smart and strong human beings.
- AMICIA: Sophi...
- SOPHIA: Let me know
which fire you want to go to.
I'll open a path to it.
- HUGO: The ground?
- AMICIA: Yes.
He has to be down below.
The map could be the entry point.
- SOPHIA: Are we... breaking it?
- AMICIA: I guess so.
Stay back, alright.
Ready?
Push.
- SOPHIA: Whoo...
That was liberating.
- HUGO: Poor map.
- SOPHIA: But... that's too bad
because it was very old, yes.
- AMICIA: Come on.
A hallway.
It's been sealed.
- SOPHIA: Sealed against what?
- AMICIA: Let's go see it.
This is it.
Come.
- HUGO: It's too dark!
- SOPHIA: But the dark is afraid of you too.
Just one light... and it's gone.
- AMICIA: Come on, we'll find the light.
Look, this leads somewhere.
This is it... I feel it.
- SOPHIA: We're the first here
in a long time.
- HUGO: Don't let go of my hand.
- AMICIA: I won't. Don't worry.
- HUGO: It's getting darker.
- AMICIA: I'll light it up.
- SOPHIA: Yes, please.
- AMICIA: Wait, something's happening.
- SOPHIA: Oh please... No...
What the hell?
- AMICIA: Look at the size of this place.
- HUGO: What is this?
- SOPHIA: Some sort of... temple?
- AMICIA: It looks like it, yes.
- SOPHIA: On the ground, look!
The Order's symbol again?
- AMICIA: Yes... This is the place.
- HUGO: Basilius' here.
Somewhere.
- SOPHIA: Look at that door...
- AMICIA: What a mess...
What happened here?
- SOPHIA: Burnt marks.
There was a blast here.
- HUGO: Was it an accident?
- AMICIA: I'd say they were blown open.
- SOPHIA: Yes, someone really wanted to get it.
- AMICIA: Let's see the rest.
- SOPHIA: There was another blast here too.
The gate is destroyed.
- AMICIA: It has to be her!
Aelia.
She escaped the chapel.
- HUGO: She just striked all this?
- AMICIA: She wanted to take Basilius back.
She forced her way through...
We're on her trail.
- SOPHIA: Finally.
Good work.
- AMICIA: Yes.
Let's push forward.
All the guards...
I can't believe she took them ... by herself.
- SOPHIA: That girl must've been
a one fiercesome fighter.
- AMICIA: She was committed.
He was everything to her.
- HUGO: Something ... was happening here.
- AMICIA: Lord... I hope she made it.
Please.
Give us something.
So...
- HUGO: We should go back.
- SOPHIA: "Protect one, protect all."
That's the writing from the fort's chapel.
- AMICIA: It's her.
Aelia.
The Carrier's Protector.
- SOPHIA: She really gave them hell.
- AMICIA: But she died alone.
What's wrong Hugo?
- HUGO: I don't want you to die.
- AMICIA: I'm alive.
I'm alive.
- SOPHIA: Come on.
You're a big boy.
Let's have a look at that door. Hm?
- AMICIA: I know how it feels...
Fighting alone.
Fighting not to be alone.
I just hope you found peace where you are.
- SOPHIA: You got any idea
how we're gonna open this?
- HUGO: We should go back.
- SOPHIA: What?
After all this?
Come on.
- AMICIA: Are you feeling better?
- SOPHIA: So so.
- AMICIA: Hey.
We're all tired.
But we're together, right?
Well...
Let's open this door.
A cart? What's it doing here?
Sophia, can you take care of it?
- SOPHIA: Consider it done.
- AMICIA: There's a pole attached to it.
It must be for something.
I need your help, Sophia.
- SOPHIA: Alright.
- AMICIA: This will open
the top and bottom bars.
That thing that came out of the ground...
Is that a crank?
- SOPHIA: I think so.
- AMICIA: It works.
One bar done. Now for the rest.
Sophia, can I count on you?
- SOPHIA: My pleasure.
- AMICIA: Go on, Hugo.
- HUGO: Uh uh.
- AMICIA: I think it did the trick.
We can let go...
You can stop now.
- SOPHIA: Let's do this.
- AMICIA: It's working.
- SOPHIA: Yes, this is happening.
- AMICIA: Ughhh... (COUGHS)
What's that smell?
- HUGO: It shouldn't be opened.
We can still close it.
- AMICIA: No, we'll find Basilius.
We'll pass that door altogether.
We're here.
If you want to go back, Sophia.
Now it's the time.
- SOPHIA: (CHUCKLES)
Let's go.
- HUGO: I want to go back.
- AMICIA: Please, Hugo.
(COUGHS)
- SOPHIA: Urgh...
What... are we... breathing?
- AMICIA: Rat's nest.
But the area's much bigger.
- HUGO: It's been there a long time.
- AMICIA: Since... Basilius?
- HUGO: I think so.
Oh... I feel...
funny...
- AMICIA: Your head?
- AMICIA: Courage.
What is that?
- SOPHIA: This is not welcoming.
- HUGO: Hmm...
- AMICIA: Let's see.
- SOPHIA: That did something, definitely.
Prepare to run, just in case.
- HUGO: It's a bridge.
- SOPHIA: This place
is a goddamn underground fortress.
- AMICIA: Let's keep going.
It seems to go all the way.
- HUGO: There's  a missing piece.
- AMICIA: Ah... yes...
- SOPHIA: Look, here... There's a way down.
Well, it-it's deep, well...
- AMICIA: Right.
It could work.
I'll try first.
- HUGO: Be careful.
- AMICIA: Hey.
- HUGO: You're...
...here. (SOBBING)
- AMICIA: What? It's alright.
Let us go.
- SOPHIA: Do you want to... take a break?
- AMICIA: No, we better go.
I'm here now.
Let's go.
- HUGO: I'm sad...
...and scared, Amicia.
- AMICIA: I know.
We've been through a lot.
- AMICIA: Is it... Basilius'?
- HUGO: Maybe.
(PRONOUCE MORE CLEARY, YOU BRAT!)
I'm scared.
- SOPHIA: Guess that means
we're getting close.
- AMICIA: The end of the bridge.
Time to see where this leads.
- SOPHIA: Urghh... That smell is...
...suffocating.
- SOPHIA: So, he's down there?
- AMICIA: Yes.
At the heart of all this.
It looks like what the last threshold would do.
Aelia failed to reach him.
And this is what happened.
- SOPHIA: But what?
What happened?
And what happened to him?
- HUGO: I don't want to know.
- AMICIA: You have to.
He brought you here.
It's...
...your legacy.
- HUGO: I don't want a legacy.
I want to be normal.
- AMICIA: Hugo...
Before we get things back to normal.
You must live.
- HUGO: You want that but
I keep ruining things.
- AMICIA: But you don't do it on purpose.
You're... You're a child!
- HUGO: There were children
in the Red City too!
- SOPHIA: It's tough, Hugo.
We don't know each other very well, but...
I know you deserve a second chance.
Even...
We have to fight it in hell.
- AMICIA: Yes.
I want him out of my head!
- AMICIA: We're close.
If he's down there,
so is what can save you.
- HUGO: What's the point?
If I keep ruining everything?
- AMICIA: Stop! You have to trust me!
- HUGO: I...
I can't!
- SOPHIA: Sweetheart!
- AMICIA: Please... I know!
- HUGO: No... you don't.
Why are you doing this?
- SOPHIA: Amicia...
- AMICIA: Come, I'll carry you.
We'll do this together.
- SOPHIA: This is too much.
- AMICIA: I'm sorry
you have to go through this.
I do it for you.
- HUGO: I want to rest.
- AMICIA: You'll have it.
But you must live first.
I need you.
- HUGO: I'm scared of what down there, Amicia.
- AMICIA: Stop.
You will live.
- SOPHIA: Is that...
The Carrier?
- AMICIA: The imprisoned him.
- HUGO: But... why?
- AMICIA: They were scared of him...
Of his power.
This is why they built... all this.
They were always afraid.
- SOPHIA: They left a child to die.
- AMICIA: He unleashed the rats.
They tore through their walls.
They couldn't stop them.
It started here.
- SOPHIA: What?
- AMICIA: The Justinean plague.
- HUGO: He was sad.
So sad and angry.
- AMICIA: So that's why
the Macula brought us here?
It has to be something...
A scroll...?
A file...?
Something!
- SOPHIA: I see nothing!
- AMICIA: Aelia...
She failed.
- SOPHIA: Amicia...
- AMICIA: She failed, Sophia.
- SOPHIA: I know...
- HUGO: So unfair...
When I die...
- AMICIA: You won't die!
- HUGO:...I will also kill them all!!
- AMICIA: No, Hugo.
He wasn't meant to die.
When they took him from his Protector...
He lost hope.
So he gave into the Macula
and condemned them all.
- HUGO: He was right!
- AMICIA: No! That's...
If one word from her had reached him...
He would've known he wasn't alone.
He would've lived and spare millions.
Do you understand?
You won't die!
I'm here for you...
And I will give you the life you deserve.
A life without fight.
Do you want that?
Let's find ourselves a home.
- SOPHIA: I don't think they agree.
- AMICIA: What's going on?
- SOPHIA: We must get out!
- AMICIA: Hah... Quick quick!
- SOPHIA: Move!
To the right!
- HUGO: They don't want me to leave!
- AMICIA: They'll get nothing!
- SOPHIA: Save your breath!
Stay with me!
- AMICIA: Hah... No! Up up up! Sophia!
- SOPHIA: On your left!
- AMICIA: Yeah... Come on, Hugo!
Everything's going to collapse!
- HUGO: They're so angry!
Oh no, they're not slowing down!
- AMICIA: We can still do it!
Come on, quick!
- HUGO: I'm trying!
- HUGO: Leave us!
- HUGO: LEAVE US!!
- AMICIA: Ignore them, Hugo!
Breathe... Keep running!
- HUGO: Ur... Sophia?
- AMICIA: Sophia??
- SOPHIA: I'm right here!
- AMICIA: Is there an exit?
- SOPHIA: Nothing yet!
Keep going!
- HUGO: No!
- AMICIA: What?
- HUGO: They're coming!
There're so many!
- AMICIA: Come on! Come on!
- AMICIA: Yes... Yes! Finally!
- SOPHIA: (IN THE DISTANCE)
Come on!
- HUGO: It's falling! Amicia!
- AMICIA: Keep running! Don't look back!
(PANTING)
- SOPHIA: Tell me they're sealed inside.
- AMICIA: I think we're fine.
Has anyone hurt?
Hugo?
- HUGO: It was horrible...
- AMICIA: Yes.
I'm sorry you had to see that.
The Macula lured you in.
- SOPHIA: The Macula
really has a way with children.
- HUGO: They put chains on him.
- AMICIA: Yes.
But you'll live.
That's what most important.
- HUGO: That's not
what's the most important.
I'm scared to think people at that bad.
I'm scared of what they'll make me too.
- AMICIA: You're right...
Listen.
There will always be people
who do terrible things.
That's how the world is.
But you have to trust
in your own goodness.
And goodness of others.
People who care.
I want you to be happy.
Friends...
- SOPHIA: Like me.
- AMICIA: Friends
make you want to be good, right?
If you doubt it, I understand.
But you can trust me.
You can trust us.
- HUGO: I trust you.
- AMICIA: We'll find a place of our own.
Let's leave this island.
- SOPHIA: We have a boat to catch.
And a sea of rats to cross first.
- AMICIA: They won't stop us.
Everything is different.